Reflection

This meeting took place on 15th October, 2019. From 11:00AM till 11:45AM. All members were present. 

We began by brainstorming strategies to complete this iteration as efficiently as possible. The iteration seemed daunting as it required us to implement all 32 functions. However, the task began to seem more achievable as we broke down the iteration and divided the work amongst ourselves. We decided to allocate the work based on the tests we completed in the previous iteration. For example, since Jeff had written tests for the auth functions, he chose to implement them. Similarly, Kenny chose the message functions, Ben chose the user functions and Emad chose the channel functions. We agreed to meet on a regular basis in addition to bi-weekly stands over the group chat and by phone.

Another meeting took place on the 22nd October. From 2:00PM to 2:15PM. All members were present. 

This was a short meeting and we updated each other on our progress. This included our reflections on how we decided to divide the work. Ben and Jeffrey appeared to have less functions to implement and so, had completed a larger percentage of their work compared to Kenny and Emad. Consequently, Ben and Jeffrey agreed to contribute a larger share to the assurances and teamwork files which to this point in time, had not been allocated to anyone. We also discussed the order of implementation of the functions so that testing can occur and agreed to update each other with our ideas on the group chat. 

Final Meeting 27th October, 2019. From 9:00AM to 10:30AM. Kenny and Emad were present, Jeffrey and Ben joined via phone. 

This was our final formal meeting in which we tied all the loose ends together and responded to updates to the iteration. In light of Jeffrey’s work commitments later in the day, the allocation of work was reassessed and Emad decided to edit the teamwork.md file as he had finished his functions. Ben began testing the server as a whole and posted feedback on the group, to which each member made appropriate changes to their functions. Each member took the opportunity to review each other’s functions. We also evaluated each of the files (assurances & teamwork) as a group to ensure that they fulfilled the criterion. 

As we near the end of iteration 2, our experiences allow us to reflect and identify areas of improvement. In the previous iteration, we noted that much of the work is interlinked and this was greatly beneficial as early on we decided to notify each other when pushing or merging. This turned out to be a great initiative as the amount of merge conflicts and issues with Git severely decreased this time in comparison to iteration 1. Also, the in-house review which was suggested after iteration 1, was great to do as it allowed us to identify silly mistakes and obvious shortcomings before submissions. However, an area of improvement we have identified is that we need to encourage the use of the task board more as this is a more efficient way to keep track of everyone’s progress as opposed to scrolling through messages and/or directly checking member’s files on Git.  