## Iteration 3 Reflection 

# This meeting took place on the 28th October, 2019. From 4:00PM to 5:00PM. All members were present. 

* We began by brainstorming our approach for this final iteration as we discussed the strategies that did and didn’t work in the past. We found pair programming to be incredibly useful in iteration 2 and we decided to continue it as it helped us connect different parts of the project together. Also, we decided on how we would allocate the changes and inclusions that had been made for this iteration. It was agreed that the person responsible for the type of function (channel, message, user) the change was corresponding to, would carry out the changes. We agreed to meet on a regular basis in addition to bi-weekly stand-ups over the group chat and by phone. 

# This meeting took place on the 7th November, 2019. From 2:00PM to 2:30PM. All members were present.

* By this time marks for iteration 2 had been released. This allowed us to reflect and in response to the grade we received, we made some immediate changes. Since we only did end-point testing in iteration 2, we immediately began reviewing our iteration 1 tests, making them compatible with the functions we have written. To keep track of all the tasks that each member was assigned and had to complete, we used the task board extensively. So far, most of the iteration has been completed and we have decided to leave the uploadphoto for later as more clarifications are made regarding it.   

# This meeting took place on the 14th November, 2019. From 9:00AM to 10:00AM. All members were present except for Emad, who joined via telephone. 

* This was our final formal meeting where we focussed on programming user/profiles/uploadphoto. Pair programming proved incredibly useful for this and saved us time. After this, we tied all the loose ends together and organised our code such that we had a seperate file for each type of function and files for tests & helper functions. We began integrating the backend with the frontend and ensured that the correct errors are displayed. We had deliberately timed this meeting to be a couple days before submission so that we are able to carry out the necessary changes that often surface during last-minute checks. This had happened to us in iteration 2 as only in the last minute did we realise that endpoint testing alone would not be sufficient and that we should utilise our tests written in iteration 1. Overall, communication between our team-members was quite high throughout the project which helped ensure that everyone was up-to-date with regards to everyone’s plans and progress.